Operational review of the distance education functions of the Primary Health Care Nurse Practitioner
Relevant experts/groups are invited to submit a proposal to the Provincial Office of the Council of Ontario University Programs in Nursing (COUPN) Primary Health Care Nurse Practitioner (PHCNP) Consortium to conduct an operational review of the distance education (DE) functions of the Program. The purpose of the review is to: 1) evaluate value for money of the DE components of the program; 2) make recommendations about how to optimize the use of existing DE technologies in order to achieve optimal teaching/learning outcomes; and, 3) make recommendations on industry standards for the DE delivery components of the program. 
Content of the Proposal:
Please provide quotes for the review and include the following details:
1. Names of the individuals who will work on the project and their relevant experience and credentials. All RFPs are welcomed.
2. What method and procedures will be used for each aspect of the review; 
3. Total maximum fee for the review as well as any incidental charges. For incidental charges, please indicate when they will apply and how they will be calculated; 
4. How the timelines identified below will be met;
5. Three client references for whom you have provided comparable services. 
Background:
The Primary Health Care Nurse Practitioner (PHCNP) Program Consortium consists of nine Schools of Nursing (Lakehead, Laurentian, McMaster, Ottawa, Queen's, Ryerson, Western, Windsor, and York) across the province of Ontario that participate in offering seven common Master's level PHCNP courses towards a post-Baccalaureate certificate, Master's degree, or post-Master's certificate. The PHCNP Consortium Program prepares nurses for advanced practice as a NP in Primary Health Care. The program uses a hybrid educational model that combines online courses, face-to-face on site labs, simulation and clinical practice in English or French within each home university's geographic boundaries. The seven courses constituting the common curriculum of the PHCNP program are offered by faculty based at one of the nine sites. Students are admitted and registered at one of the nine universities. The program is offered in English at each of the nine sites, and in French at the Ottawa and Laurentian sites. There are French and English versions of each of the seven courses. 
Administration and coordination for the province-wide aspects of the consortium are provided through two offices-the Provincial PHCNP Management Office in Toronto and a Distance Education (DE) Office located in Ottawa. The DE Office manager reports to the Provincial Manager on deliverables and to the head of the Ottawa School of Nursing for human resource matters. The Distance Education Office has the following responsibilities:
versees the Learning Management System; 
assists course professors with the DE design/delivery component of the seven core courses;
provides IT technical support for online exams;
provides faculty/student IT technical education and support 
provides clinical simulator on-site support;
procures software and connections; 
develops and maintains the website;
maintains the central registry database for students.
There are six full time equivalents (FTEs) fulfilling the DE functions for the PHCNP program. Four FTEs (one Manager, one Program Analyst, one System Analyst and one Webmaster/web designer) are non-unionized and bilingual, and located at the University of Ottawa. Two additional full-time, unionized staff provides IT technical support for faculty and students in their respective geographic regions (one at Ryerson University in Toronto; and one at McMaster University in Hamilton). 
Deliverables: 
The independent DE expert will:
1.Design and conduct a DE needs assessment that involves students, course professors and other relevant employees and administrators in the PHCNP program.
2.Interview all of the DE office employees regarding their job responsibilities, workload, and deliverables. 
3.Review current/relevant DE best practices, literature, DE office goals and objectives and any previous evaluation work done on the DE Office. 
4.Evaluate the current DE system to see what the strengths and gaps are in terms of meeting PHCNP program needs.
5.Provide a written report that: 
a.Outlines DE needs at both the nine university consortium sites and at a province-wide level, including the need for an IT helpline;
b.Identifies any strengths and any gaps between what is being provided and what is needed;
c.Identifies whether the budget and workload is optimally directed and distributed in terms of meeting the needs of the program, including an assessment of the IT staff to student ratio; and student contact with the DE team for technical support 
d.Identifies whether/how the functionality of the current learning management system is being fully optimized in terms of meeting students' learning needs and professors and tutors teaching needs;
e.Makes recommendations regarding how to move forward to meet the objectives of cost efficiency, optimization of the existing learning management system, and potential adoption of emerging distance learning technologies. 
f.Makes recommendations regarding what needs to be done to set industry standards for the DE delivery components of PHCNP education. 
6.Attend an in-person meeting with the Deans and Directors of the Schools of Nursing at the PHCNP office in Toronto to present the review findings.
Timelines: 
Deadline for questions regarding the RFP November 12, 2011
Deadline for submission of the final RFP November 30, 2011
Initial meeting with the Provincial Manager December 12, 2011
Site visits/interviews Between December 2011 and January 2012
A preliminary report/meeting January 25, 2012
A written report Must be completed by March 2012 

